Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry or simply Hogwarts is a fictional boarding school of magic for witches and wizards between the ages of eleven and seventeen living in the United Kingdom and
 Ireland.

It is the primary setting for the first six books of the Harry Potter series, with each book lasting the equivalent of one school year.

In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, however, most  of the book is set outside Hogwarts as main characters Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger do not attend their final year of school. 

The climactic battle of the book, and the series, however, is set at Hogwarts.
 
A hand drawn map of Hogwarts by J. K. Rowling.
J. K. Rowling says she visualises Hogwarts, in its entirety, to be:
A huge, rambling, quite scary-looking castle, with a jumble of towers and battlements. Like the Weasley's house, it isn't a building that Muggles could build, because it is supported by magic.

In the novels, Hogwarts is located somewhere in Scotland. The school has numerous charms and spells on and around it that make it impossible for a Muggle to locate it they can't see the school,  only ruins and several warnings of danger.

The castle has extensive grounds with sloping lawns, flowerbeds and vegetable patches, a loch, a large dense forest, several greenhouses and other outbuildings,  and a full-size Quidditch pitch.

There is also an owlery, which houses all the owls owned by the school and those owned by students.

It should be noted that some rooms in the school tend to move around, and so do the stairs in the grand staircase. Witches and wizards cannot Apparate or Disapparate in Hogwarts grounds, except when the Headmaster lifts the enchantment, whether only in certain areas or for the entire campus, so as to make the school less vulnerable when it serves the headmaster to allow Apparition.

Electricity and electronic devices are not found at Hogwarts.

In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Hermione indicates that due to the high levels of magic, substitutes for magic Muggles use such as computers, radar and electricity go haywire around Hogwarts.

Radios however, make an exception. Rowling explains this by saying that the radios are not powered by electricity and are powered by magic.
