Call me Ishmael.
Herman Melville
Moby-Dick
1851

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
Jane Austen
Pride and Prejudice
1813

A screaming comes across the sky. 
Thomas Pynchon 
Gravity's Rainbow 
1973

Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. 
Leo Tolstoy (trans. Constance Garnett) 
Anna Karenina 
1877

riverrun, past Eve and Adam's, from swerve of shore to bend of bay, brings us by a commodius vicus of recirculation back to Howth Castle and Environs. 
James Joyce 
Finnegans Wake 
1939

It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen. 
George Orwell 
1984 
1949

It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair. 
Charles Dickens 
A Tale of Two Cities 
1859

I am an invisible man. 
Ralph Ellison 
Invisible Man 
1952

The Miss Lonelyhearts of the New York Post-Dispatch (Are you in trouble?-Do-you-need-advice?-Write-to-Miss-Lonelyhearts-and-she-will-help-you) sat at his desk and stared at a piece of white cardboard. 
Nathanael West 
Miss Lonelyhearts 
1933

You don't know about me without you have read a book by the name of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain't no matter. 
Mark Twain 
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn 
1885

Someone must have slandered Josef K., for one morning, without having done anything truly wrong, he was arrested. 
Franz Kafka (trans. Breon Mitchell) 
The Trial 
1925

You are about to begin reading Italo Calvino's new novel, If on a winter's night a traveler. 
Italo Calvino (trans. William Weaver) 
If on a winter's night a traveler 
1979

The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new. 
Samuel Beckett 
Murphy 
1938

If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you'll probably want to know is where I was born, and what my lousy childhood was like, and how my parents were occupied and all before they had me, and all that David Copperfield kind of crap, but I don't feel like going into it, if you want to know the truth. 
J. D. Salinger 
The Catcher in the Rye 
1951

Once upon a time and a very good time it was there was a moocow coming down along the road and this moocow that was coming down along the road met a nicens little boy named baby tuckoo. 
James Joyce 
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man 
1916

This is the saddest story I have ever heard. 
Ford Madox Ford 
The Good Soldier 
1915

I wish either my father or my mother, or indeed both of them, as they were in duty both equally bound to it, had minded what they were about when they begot me; had they duly considered how much depended upon what they were then doing;-that not only the production of a rational Being was concerned in it, but that possibly the happy formation and temperature of his body, perhaps his genius and the very cast of his mind;-and, for aught they knew to the contrary, even the fortunes of his whole house might take their turn from the humours and dispositions which were then uppermost:-Had they duly weighed and considered all this, and proceeded accordingly,-I am verily persuaded I should have made a quite different figure in the world, from that, in which the reader is likely to see me. 
Laurence Sterne 
Tristram Shandy 
1759-1767

Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show. 
Charles Dickens 
David Copperfield 
1850

Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl of lather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed. 
James Joyce 
Ulysses 
1922

It was a dark and stormy night; the rain fell in torrents, except at occasional intervals, when it was checked by a violent gust of wind which swept up the streets (for it is in London that our scene lies), rattling along the house-tops, and fiercely agitating the scanty flame of the lamps that struggled against the darkness. 
Edward George Bulwer-Lytton 
Paul Clifford 
1830

One summer afternoon Mrs. Oedipa Maas came home from a Tupperware party whose hostess had put perhaps too much kirsch in the fondue to find that she, Oedipa, had been named executor, or she supposed executrix, of the estate of one Pierce Inverarity, a California real estate mogul who had once lost two million dollars in his spare time but still had assets numerous and tangled enough to make the job of sorting it all out more than honorary. 
Thomas Pynchon 
The Crying of Lot 49 
1966

It was a wrong number that started it, the telephone ringing three times in the dead of night, and the voice on the other end asking for someone he was not. 
Paul Auster 
City of Glass 
1985

Through the fence, between the curling flower spaces, I could see them hitting. 
William Faulkner 
The Sound and the Fury 
1929

124 was spiteful. 
Toni Morrison 
Beloved 
1987

Somewhere in la Mancha, in a place whose name I do not care to remember, a gentleman lived not long ago, one of those who has a lance and ancient shield on a shelf and keeps a skinny nag and a greyhound for racing. 
Miguel de Cervantes (trans. Edith Grossman) 
Don Quixote 
1605

Mother died today. 
Albert Camus (trans. Stuart Gilbert) 
The Stranger 
1942

Every summer Lin Kong returned to Goose Village to divorce his wife, Shuyu. 
Ha Jin 
Waiting 
1999

The sky above the port was the color of television, tuned to a dead channel. 
William Gibson 
Neuromancer 
1984

I am a sick man . . . I am a spiteful man. 
Fyodor Dostoyevsky (trans. Michael R. Katz) 
Notes from Underground 
1864

Where now? Who now? When now? 
Samuel Beckett (trans. Patrick Bowles) 
The Unnamable 
1953

Once an angry man dragged his father along the ground through his own orchard. "Stop!" cried the groaning old man at last, "Stop! I did not drag my father beyond this tree." 
Gertrude Stein 
The Making of Americans 
1925

In a sense, I am Jacob Horner. 
John Barth 
The End of the Road 
1958

It was like so, but wasn't. 
Richard Powers 
Galatea 2.2 
1995

Mrs. Dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself. 
Virginia Woolf 
Mrs. Dalloway 
1925

All this happened, more or less. 
Kurt Vonnegut 
Slaughterhouse-Five 
1969

They shoot the white girl first. 
Toni Morrison 
Paradise 
1998

For a long time, I went to bed early. 
Marcel Proust (trans. Lydia Davis) 
Swann's Way 
1913

The moment one learns English, complications set in. 
Felipe Alfau 
Chromos 
1990

Dr. Weiss, at forty, knew that her life had been ruined by literature. 
Anita Brookner 
The Debut 
1981

I was the shadow of the waxwing slain / By the false azure in the windowpane; 
Vladimir Nabokov 
Pale Fire 
1962

Ships at a distance have every man's wish on board. 
Zora Neale Hurston 
Their Eyes Were Watching God 
1937

I had the story, bit by bit, from various people, and, as generally happens in such cases, each time it was a different story. 
Edith Wharton 
Ethan Frome 
1911

Ages ago, Alex, Allen and Alva arrived at Antibes, and Alva allowing all, allowing anyone, against Alex's admonition, against Allen's angry assertion: another African amusement . . . anyhow, as all argued, an awesome African army assembled and arduously advanced against an African anthill, assiduously annihilating ant after ant, and afterward, Alex astonishingly accuses Albert as also accepting Africa's antipodal ant annexation. 
Walter Abish 
Alphabetical Africa 
1974

There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it. 
C. S. Lewis 
The Voyage of the Dawn Treader 
1952

He was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he had gone eighty-four days now without taking a fish. 
Ernest Hemingway 
The Old Man and the Sea 
1952

It was the day my grandmother exploded. 
Iain M. Banks 
The Crow Road 
1992

I was born twice: first, as a baby girl, on a remarkably smogless Detroit day in January of 1960; and then again, as a teenage boy, in an emergency room near Petoskey, Michigan, in August of 1974. 
Jeffrey Eugenides 
Middlesex 
2002

Elmer Gantry was drunk. 
Sinclair Lewis 
Elmer Gantry 
1927

We started dying before the snow, and like the snow, we continued to fall. 
Louise Erdrich 
Tracks 
1988

It was a pleasure to burn. 
Ray Bradbury 
Fahrenheit 451 
1953

A story has no beginning or end; arbitrarily one chooses that moment of experience from which to look back or from which to look ahead. 
Graham Greene 
The End of the Affair 
1951

Having placed in my mouth sufficient bread for three minutes' chewing, I withdrew my powers of sensual perception and retired into the privacy of my mind, my eyes and face assuming a vacant and preoccupied expression. 
Flann O'Brien 
At Swim-Two-Birds 
1939

I was born in the Year 1632, in the City of York, of a good Family, tho' not of that Country, my Father being a Foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull; He got a good Estate by Merchandise, and leaving off his Trade, lived afterward at York, from whence he had married my Mother, whose Relations were named Robinson, a very good Family in that Country, and from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the usual Corruption of Words in England, we are now called, nay we call our selves, and write our Name Crusoe, and so my Companions always call'd me. 
Daniel Defoe 
Robinson Crusoe 
1719

In the beginning, sometimes I left messages in the street. 
David Markson 
Wittgenstein's Mistress 
1988

Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty which seems to be thrown into relief by poor dress. 
George Eliot 
Middlemarch 
1872

It was love at first sight. 
Joseph Heller 
Catch-22 
1961

What if this young woman, who writes such bad poems, in competition with her husband, whose poems are equally bad, should stretch her remarkably long and well-made legs out before you, so that her skirt slips up to the tops of her stockings? 
Gilbert Sorrentino 
Imaginative Qualities of Actual Things 
1971

I have never begun a novel with more misgiving. 
W. Somerset Maugham 
The Razor's Edge 
1944

Once upon a time, there was a woman who discovered she had turned into the wrong person. 
Anne Tyler 
Back When We Were Grownups 
2001

The human race, to which so many of my readers belong, has been playing at children's games from the beginning, and will probably do it till the end, which is a nuisance for the few people who grow up. 
G. K. Chesterton 
The Napoleon of Notting Hill 
1904

In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since. 
F. Scott Fitzgerald 
The Great Gatsby 
1925

You better not never tell nobody but God. 
Alice Walker 
The Color Purple 
1982

"To be born again," sang Gibreel Farishta tumbling from the heavens, "first you have to die." 
Salman Rushdie 
The Satanic Verses 
1988

It was a queer, sultry summer, the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs, and I didn't know what I was doing in New York. 
Sylvia Plath 
The Bell Jar 
1963

Most really pretty girls have pretty ugly feet, and so does Mindy Metalman, Lenore notices, all of a sudden. 
David Foster Wallace 
The Broom of the System 
1987

If I am out of my mind, it's all right with me, thought Moses Herzog. 
Saul Bellow 
Herzog 
1964

Francis Marion Tarwater's uncle had been dead for only half a day when the boy got too drunk to finish digging his grave and a Negro named Buford Munson, who had come to get a jug filled, had to finish it and drag the body from the breakfast table where it was still sitting and bury it in a decent and Christian way, with the sign of its Saviour at the head of the grave and enough dirt on top to keep the dogs from digging it up. 
Flannery O'Connor 
The Violent Bear it Away 
1960

Granted: I am an inmate of a mental hospital; my keeper is watching me, he never lets me out of his sight; there's a peephole in the door, and my keeper's eye is the shade of brown that can never see through a blue-eyed type like me. 
Gunter Grass (trans. Ralph Manheim) 
The Tin Drum 
1959

When Dick Gibson was a little boy he was not Dick Gibson. 
Stanley Elkin 
The Dick Gibson Show 
1971

Hiram Clegg, together with his wife Emma and four friends of the faith from Randolph Junction, were summoned by the Spirit and Mrs. Clara Collins, widow of the beloved Nazarene preacher Ely Collins, to West Condon on the weekend of the eighteenth and nineteenth of April, there to await the End of the World. 
Robert Coover 
The Origin of the Brunists 
1966

She waited, Kate Croy, for her father to come in, but he kept her unconscionably, and there were moments at which she showed herself, in the glass over the mantel, a face positively pale with the irritation that had brought her to the point of going away without sight of him. 
Henry James 
The Wings of the Dove 
1902

In the late summer of that year we lived in a house in a village that looked across the river and the plain to the mountains. 
Ernest Hemingway 
A Farewell to Arms 
1929

"Take my camel, dear," said my Aunt Dot, as she climbed down from this animal on her return from High Mass. 
Rose Macaulay 
The Towers of Trebizon 
1956

He was an inch, perhaps two, under six feet, powerfully built, and he advanced straight at you with a slight stoop of the shoulders, head forward, and a fixed from-under stare which made you think of a charging bull. 
Joseph Conrad 
Lord Jim 
1900

The past is a foreign country; they do things differently there. 
L. P. Hartley 
The Go-Between 
1953

On my naming day when I come 12 I gone front spear and kilt a wyld boar he parbly ben the las wyld pig on the Bundel Downs any how there hadnt ben none for a long time befor him nor I aint looking to see none agen. 
Russell Hoban 
Riddley Walker 
1980

Justice?-You get justice in the next world, in this world you have the law. 
William Gaddis 
A Frolic of His Own 
1994

Vaughan died yesterday in his last car-crash. 
J. G. Ballard 
Crash 
1973

I write this sitting in the kitchen sink. 
Dodie Smith 
I Capture the Castle 
1948

"When your mama was the geek, my dreamlets," Papa would say, "she made the nipping off of noggins such a crystal mystery that the hens themselves yearned toward her, waltzing around her, hypnotized with longing." 
Katherine Dunn 
Geek Love 
1983

In the last years of the Seventeenth Century there was to be found among the fops and fools of the London coffee-houses one rangy, gangling flitch called Ebenezer Cooke, more ambitious than talented, and yet more talented than prudent, who, like his friends-in-folly, all of whom were supposed to be educating at Oxford or Cambridge, had found the sound of Mother English more fun to game with than her sense to labor over, and so rather than applying himself to the pains of scholarship, had learned the knack of versifying, and ground out quires of couplets after the fashion of the day, afroth with Joves and Jupiters, aclang with jarring rhymes, and string-taut with similes stretched to the snapping-point. 
John Barth 
The Sot-Weed Factor 
1960

When I finally caught up with Abraham Trahearne, he was drinking beer with an alcoholic bulldog named Fireball Roberts in a ramshackle joint just outside of Sonoma, California, drinking the heart right out of a fine spring afternoon. 
James Crumley 
The Last Good Kiss 
1978

It was just noon that Sunday morning when the sheriff reached the jail with Lucas Beauchamp though the whole town (the whole county too for that matter) had known since the night before that Lucas had killed a white man. 
William Faulkner 
Intruder in the Dust 
1948

I, Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus This-that-and-the-other (for I shall not trouble you yet with all my titles) who was once, and not so long ago either, known to my friends and relatives and associates as "Claudius the Idiot," or "That Claudius," or "Claudius the Stammerer," or "Clau-Clau-Claudius" or at best as "Poor Uncle Claudius," am now about to write this strange history of my life; starting from my earliest childhood and continuing year by year until I reach the fateful point of change where, some eight years ago, at the age of fifty-one, I suddenly found myself caught in what I may call the "golden predicament" from which I have never since become disentangled. 
Robert Graves 
I, Claudius 
1934

Of all the things that drive men to sea, the most common disaster, I've come to learn, is women. 
Charles Johnson 
Middle Passage 
1990

I am an American, Chicago born-Chicago, that somber city-and go at things as I have taught myself, free-style, and will make the record in my own way: first to knock, first admitted; sometimes an innocent knock, sometimes a not so innocent. 
Saul Bellow 
The Adventures of Augie March 
1953

The towers of Zenith aspired above the morning mist; austere towers of steel and cement and limestone, sturdy as cliffs and delicate as silver rods. 
Sinclair Lewis 
Babbitt 
1922

I will tell you in a few words who I am: lover of the hummingbird that darts to the flower beyond the rotted sill where my feet are propped; lover of bright needlepoint and the bright stitching fingers of humorless old ladies bent to their sweet and infamous designs; lover of parasols made from the same puffy stuff as a young girl's underdrawers; still lover of that small naval boat which somehow survived the distressing years of my life between her decks or in her pilothouse; and also lover of poor dear black Sonny, my mess boy, fellow victim and confidant, and of my wife and child. But most of all, lover of my harmless and sanguine self. 
John Hawkes 
Second Skin 
1964

He was born with a gift of laughter and a sense that the world was mad. 
Raphael Sabatini 
Scaramouche 
1921

Psychics can see the color of time it's blue. 
Ronald Sukenick 
Blown Away 
1986

In the town, there were two mutes and they were always together. 
Carson McCullers 
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter 
1940

Time is not a line but a dimension, like the dimensions of space. 
Margaret Atwood 
Cat's Eye 
1988

He-for there could be no doubt of his sex, though the fashion of the time did something to disguise it-was in the act of slicing at the head of a Moor which swung from the rafters. 
Virginia Woolf 
Orlando 
1928

High, high above the North Pole, on the first day of 1969, two professors of English Literature approached each other at a combined velocity of 1200 miles per hour. 
David Lodge 
Changing Places 
1975

They say when trouble comes close ranks, and so the white people did. 
Jean Rhys 
Wide Sargasso Sea 
1966

The cold passed reluctantly from the earth, and the retiring fogs revealed an army stretched out on the hills, resting. 
Stephen Crane 
The Red Badge of Courage 
1895
