A computer once beat me at chess, but it was no match for me at kick boxing.
Emo Philips

A wonderful thing about a book, in contrast to a computer screen, is that you can take it to bed with you.
Daniel J. Boorstin

Access to computers and the Internet has become a basic need for education in our society.
Kent Conrad

As a rule, software systems do not work well until they have been used, and have failed repeatedly, in real applications.
Dave Parnas

Because I believe that humans are computers, I conjectured that computers, like people, can have left- and right-handed versions.
Philip Emeagwali

Bill Gates is the pope of the personal computer industry. He decides who's going to build.
Larry Ellison

Computer science is no more about computers than astronomy is about telescopes.
Edsger Dijkstra

Computers are famous for being able to do complicated things starting from simple programs.
Seth Lloyd

Computers are like Old Testament gods; lots of rules and no mercy.
Joseph Campbell

Computers are magnificent tools for the realization of our dreams, but no machine can replace the human spark of spirit, compassion, love, and understanding.
Louis Gerstner

Computers are useless. They can only give you answers.
Pablo Picasso

Computers have virtually replaced tape recorders.
Tony Visconti

Computers in classrooms are the filmstrips of the 1990s.
Clifford Stoll

Computers make it easier to do a lot of things, but most of the things they make it easier to do don't need to be done.
Andy Rooney

Computers may save time but they sure waste a lot of paper. About 98 percent of everything printed out by a computer is garbage that no one ever reads.
Andy Rooney

Computing is not about computers any more. It is about living.
Nicholas Negroponte

Even in the developing parts of the world, kids take to computers like fish to water.
Nicholas Negroponte

Even when I work with computers, with high technology, I always try to put in the touch of the hand.
Issey Miyake

Every piece of software written today is likely going to infringe on someone else's patent.
Miguel de Icaza

Gee, I am a complete Luddite when it comes to computers, I can barely log on!
Jonathan Shapiro

Home computers are being called upon to perform many new functions, including the consumption of homework formerly eaten by the dog.
Doug Larson

I am not the only person who uses his computer mainly for the purpose of diddling with his computer.
Dave Barry

I am regularly asked what the average Internet user can do to ensure his security. My first answer is usually 'Nothing; you're screwed'.
Bruce Scheneier

I do not fear computers. I fear the lack of them.
Isaac Asimov

I do two things. I design mobile computers and I study brains.
Jeff Hawkins

I got interested in computers and how they could be enslaved to the megalomaniac impulses of a teenager.
Eugene Jarvis

I got up with my wife, I sat down at the computer when she went to work, and I didn't stop until she got home.
George Stephen

I happen to think that computers are the most important thing to happen to musicians since the invention of cat-gut which was a long time ago.
Robert Moog

I just became one with my browser software.
Bill Griffith

I started on an Apple II, which I had bought at the very end of 1978 for half of my annual income. I made $4,500 a year, and I spent half of it on the computer.
Bill Budge

I think computer viruses should count as life. I think it says something about human nature that the only form of life we have created so far is purely destructive. We've created life in our own image.
Stephen Hawking

I think it's fair to say that personal computers have become the most empowering tool we've ever created. They're tools of communication, they're tools of creativity, and they can be shaped by their user.
Bill Gates

I was afraid of the internet... because I couldn't type.
Jack Welch

I wouldn't know how to find eBay on the computer if my life depended on it.
Marc Jacobs

I'm a '70s mom, and my daughter is a '90s mom. I know a lot of women my age who are real computer freaks.
Florence Henderson

I'm too old-fashioned to use a computer. I'm too old-fashioned to use a quill.
Christopher Plummer

I've tried word processors, but I think I'm too old a dog to use one.
Dee Brown

If net neutrality goes away, it will fundamentally change everything about the Internet.
James Hilton

If you could utilize the resources of the end users' computers, you could do things much more efficiently.
Niklas Zennstrom

If you like overheads, you'll love PowerPoint.
Edward Tufte

If your computer speaks English, it was probably made in Japan.
Alan Perlis

Imagine if every Thursday your shoes exploded if you tied them the usual way. This happens to us all the time with computers, and nobody thinks of complaining.
Jef Raskin

In computing, turning the obvious into the useful is a living definition of the word "frustration".
Alan Perlis

In the practical world of computing, it is rather uncommon that a program, once it performs correctly and satisfactorily, remains unchanged forever.
Niklaus Wirth

It was a black and white only computer at the time, but it kept me fascinated.
Buffy Sainte-Marie

It's been my policy to view the Internet not as an 'information highway,' but as an electronic asylum filled with babbling loonies.
Mike Royko

It's hardware that makes a machine fast. It's software that makes a fast machine slow.
Craig Bruce

Man, I don't want to have nothing to do with computers. I don't want the government in my business.
Erykah Badu

Many of our own people here in this country do not ask about computers, telephones and television sets. They ask - when will we get a road to our village.
Thabo Mbeki

Modern people are only willing to believe in their computers, while I believe in myself.
Alain Robert

Nanotechnology will let us build computers that are incredibly powerful. We'll have more power in the volume of a sugar cube than exists in the entire world today.
Ralph Merkle

Never trust a computer you can't throw out a window.
Steve Wozniak

No one ever said on their deathbed, 'Gee, I wish I had spent more time alone with my computer'.
Danielle Berry

One of the most feared expressions in modern times is 'The computer is down.'
Norman Ralph Augustine

Part of the inhumanity of the computer is that, once it is competently programmed and working smoothly, it is completely honest.
Isaac Asimov

People think computers will keep them from making mistakes. They're wrong. With computers you make mistakes faster.
Adam Osborne

Personally, I rather look forward to a computer program winning the world chess championship. Humanity needs a lesson in humility.
Richard Dawkins

Reading computer manuals without the hardware is as frustrating as reading manuals without the software.
Arthur C. Clarke

Right now, computers, which are supposed to be our servant, are oppressing us.
Jef Raskin

Security is, I would say, our top priority because for all the exciting things you will be able to do with computers - organizing your lives, staying in touch with people, being creative - if we don't solve these security problems, then people will hold back.
Bill Gates

Shareware tends to combine the worst of commercial software with the worst of free software.
Linus Torvalds

Software comes from heaven when you have good hardware.
Ken Olsen

Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs founded Apple Inc, which set the computing world on its ear with the Macintosh in 1984.
Kevin Mitnick

Supercomputers will achieve one human brain capacity by 2010, and personal computers will do so by about 2020.
Ray Kurzweil

The basis of computer work is predicated on the idea that only the brain makes decisions and only the index finger does the work.
Brian Eno

The computer is a moron.
Peter Drucker

The digital revolution is far more significant than the invention of writing or even of printing.
Douglas Engelbart

The future lies in designing and selling computers that people don't realize are computers at all.
Adam Osborne

The good news about computers is that they do what you tell them to do. The bad news is that they do what you tell them to do.
Ted Nelson

The Internet is a powerful way to make lots of money... But we are not going to buy Yahoo!
Sumner Redstone

The internet is not for sissies.
Paul Vixie

The Internet is not just one thing, it's a collection of things - of numerous communications networks that all speak the same digital language.
Jim Clark

The Internet: transforming society and shaping the future through chat.
Dave Barry

The new information technology... Internet and e-mail... have practically eliminated the physical costs of communications.
Peter Drucker

The only legitimate use of a computer is to play games.
Eugene Jarvis

The power of the computer is starting to spread.
Bill Budge

The question of whether a computer can think is no more interesting than the question of whether a submarine can swim.
Edsger Dijkstra

The real danger is not that computers will begin to think like men, but that men will begin to think like computers.
Sydney J. Harris

There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home.
Ken Olsen

Think? Why think! We have computers to do that for us.
Jean Rostand

To err is human - and to blame it on a computer is even more so.
Robert Orben

To err is human but to really foul up requires a computer.
Dan Rather

To err is human, but to really foul things up you need a computer.
Paul R. Ehrlich

Treat your password like your toothbrush. Don't let anybody else use it, and get a new one every six months.
Clifford Stoll

We can do things that we never could before. Stop-motion lets you build tiny little worlds, and computers make that world even more believable.
Nick Park

We demand privacy, yet we glorify those that break into computers.
Bill McCollum

We're entering a new world in which data may be more important than software.
Tim O'Reilly

What do we want our kids to do? Sweep up around Japanese computers?
Walter F. Mondale

What I try to do is factor in how people use computers, what people's problems are, and how these technologies can get applied to those problems. Then I try to direct the various product groups to act on this information.
John Warnock

What I was proud of was that I used very few parts to build a computer that could actually speak words on a screen and type words on a keyboard and run a programming language that could play games. And I did all this myself.
Steve Wozniak

What we did not imagine was a Web of people, but a Web of documents.
Dale Dougherty

When I write software, I know that it will fail, either due to my own mistake, or due to some other cause.
Wietse Venema

Yet in this global economy, no jobs are safe. High-speed Internet connections and low-cost, skilled labor overseas are an explosive combination.
Bob Taft

You can't trust the internet.
Nicolette Sheridan

You couldn't have fed the '50s into a computer and come out with the '60s.
Paul Kantner

