If you were twice as smart, you'd still be stupid
"Its simple and it gets the point across beautifully lol.
"ima use dis 1 in scool NICE
"sweet im gonna use this one because this girl is trying to beat up my friend but i won't allow it

You must be the arithmetic man; you add trouble, subtract pleasure, divide attention, and multiply ignorance.
"This insult is very cool!
"Love it, this is a first class insult.
"AMAZING, WITTY....PERFECT! I ALREADY HAVE A VICTIM IN MIND

You must have been born on a highway cuz thats where most accidents happen
"i love it,, it makes me laugh much... :)
"rofl, I'm going to use it!
"if someone insulted me with this insult, I wouldn't have a comeback

You'll never be the man your mother is
"I used that on a boy I hated then I punched him
"I said this to my enemy we got into a 1 minute fight and the whole time he was crying
"Oh hell yeah, people have used that one on me, and I always get really angry because my mother is dead.

It looks light your face caught on fire and someone tried to put it out with a fork
"my dad will get so pissed when I say that
"thats epic pwnage theres no comeback for that
"I wish I had heard this earlier!

Dumbass
"plain and to the point i love it
"It's simple and yet get's the point out.
"a magical little word that carries with it a million meanings, each one, relevant and true.

Do you have to leave so soon? I was just about to poison the tea.
"Short and to the point (plus very fun to say if you say it right). I gotta use this.
"I could use this as a joke with friends. I could use a slight re-mix of this when leaving a conversation after an argument. I could use this anywhere!
"That is the best insult ever XD

We all sprang from apes, but you didn't spring far enough.
"Yeah that'd go perfect aganist my friend ... HA.
"haha I used it on mah friend and she dun get it. she really didn't spring at all xD
"pretty funny ill probly be shure to use that one

I hear when you were a child your mother wanted to hire somebody to take care of you, but the mafia wanted too much.
"He he he ill use this
"ha ha ha ha, damn, that just gets right to the point doesn't it.
"Totally funny home skillet buscuit. lol

You are so ugly that when your mama dropped you off at school she got a fine for littering

When you were born, the police arrested your dad, the doctor slapped your mom, animal control euthanized your brother, and A&E made a documentary that saved your life.
"Wow... this is the single most epic thing I have ever heard.
"took me a long time to chose and I'll probably change my mind in ten minutes but this is awesome
"this is the single meanest thing to say to someone... but thats what this list is about lol got my vote

Ever since I have seen you in your family tree, I have wanted to cut it down.
"hey ohhhhhhhhhhhhh!im definatly usin this if my friend disses me really bad again."
"i can use this on my older brother mwahaha"
"A cracking good one that will baffle the wits of my brother. olly good."

Yo mama's so fat that she's got smaller fat people orbiting around her
"haha hilarious! only one I've laughed out loud at!"
"talk about a funny picture!"
"haha thats a good one ACE"

Here's 20 cents, call all your friends and give me back the change
"the person im gonna tell it to probably is to dumb to get it
"haha do u get it u have no friends

Can I borrow your face? My arse is on holiday

hey u hav somthing on ur chin 3rd 1 down
"LOL that's funny

Some people are has-beens. You are a never-was
"its nice!!
"Very close to my life story

Your mamma so fat she has to wear 2 watches because she covers two time zones
"thats the best 1 i herd in a long time
"Sweet PWNED!
"i said that to this bully and he cried!!

Why dont you shut up and give that hole in your face a chance to heal

You're so stupid you got fired from the m&m factory for throwing out all the "w's"
"O man! wait till i tell my friend about this 1!

Being around you is like having a cancer of the soul.
"what could be better than this. NOTE use on teacher/parent
"Excellent use of a terrible disease.
"thats cold

Your momma is so ugly... she gotta be your momma
"just simple... but funny as hell
"that's actually pretty damn funny.

Your mother and father hated you so much you bath toys were an iron and a toaster
"ohh that's so mean! XD

You're face looks like a pizza with the cheese ripped off
"That makes me laugh so hard!
"That's absolutely horrible!!!! It made me laugh so hard I was crying!

I may be fat but you're ugly and I can diet.

Is that your face? Or did your neck just throw up?

Your momma so fat, when she went to a doctor, she stepped on a scale and the doctor said "Hey, thats my phone number"
"Genius. Made me laugh so hard

You're so stupid you tried to put m&ms in alphabetical order!
"i can't wait to do that one"
"this one is pretty good. he he"
"OOOOOHHHH thats gotta hurt!"

You're house is so small, you ordered a large pizza and had to eat it outside.

Nice tan, orange is my favourite colour
"Now thats something you don't say to your gf!
"I got to say this frequently when I was in california.

Looks like you fell out of the ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down

You would look like your momma... if you grow a moustache. And some horns. And gain a few thousand pounds.

Your parents are siblings
"ouch! this one is harsh! but hey.. bet it don't half smack them in the face lol
"thats friggin bad...

Do you still love nature....despite what it did to you?
"Call the fire department, cause you just got burned
"classic insult, i don't remember who actually said it first..
"This is classic!!!

Why don't you check up on eBay and see if they have a life for sale.
"Absolute AMAZING one! 
"This is so cool I am so gunna try it lol :~)

I'm looking forward to the pleasure of your company since I haven't had it yet.
"hahahahahaha NEAt... im sure using this one

You're so weird you're made of cotton.
"I love the person that put this on here you know why? BECAUSE IT IS SOOOOOOOOO HILARIOUS!"
"It makes no sense, but it's still hillarious."

Your mommas so fat that when she turned around its a birthday again!!
"thats great

Your face looks like someone smashed a glass bottle on it then tried to pick out the pieces with a wooden spoon
"I had much inspiration for this one!"

Your momma is so poor, she went to the wishing well and threw in an IOU

Yo mamma so old, she owes Moses a quarter

You are so ugly when you were born the doctor said "I'm gonna drop it, if it falls is a rat, if it flies is a bat."
"good one! i'm gonna use it!!"

You're so stupid, brain surgeons are having a hard time
"jolly good lol

I took a picture of you and taped it to my ass, but you were still uglier.

Yeah you're pretty ... pretty stupid
"this says it all
"haha..made me remember my bf's ex!

Yo mama's so fat she sat on a rainbow and Skittles popped out
"hahaha thats a classical~

You're so fat when you burped you blew the world away.
"Check if you don't beleive me."

You've got more rolls then a bakery

Go lay by your dish

Go away I was looking at something better than you

You've got a face like a burst haggis

Your momma's so fat when she runs she's rolling the earth under her

You are about as brilliant and sane as Tom Cruise
"I made that up...it's the most insulting thing I could think of
"lol thats the best one!!

Yo mamma so ugly not even rice crispes would talk to her
"Legendary! LMFAO! x

Yo mama's so fat when she went missing, she took up all four sides of the milk carton
"that is funny
