Attached in the Test1 through to Test20 files are the output results from a normal Queue implementation for this simulation. The majority of the lines at the beginning show what is occuring at each minute during the day, whether the deliverer is available or not, whether a package is accepted or refused by the company, and whether the deliverer accepts a package that has been accepted by the company. At the end of the files, a summary of the results are printed about what packages were delivered, left undelivered, refused and packages that tried to be dropped off at the depot after the depot had closed for the day. It then includes an income statement of the days net income.

For all of the reports, the net income was negative. Never did the company make a profit with its current scheme. This is largely due to the costs of delivery (50c per minute), as with only delivering one package at a time this makes it very expensive to drive to most places as you also have to take into account the cost of returning. To improve this, it is highly recommended to either deliver more than one parcel at a time or increase the cost to customers for sending packages.

When the simulation was changed to implement a priority queue, the priority was based on the minimum leaving time required to deliver the package on time so as to avoid the refund policy of 3 times the price. This is better than just doing it based on the time the parcel is due as it takes into account delivery times. This does not specifically take into account the different types of packages, such as premium, but premium packages do have a quicker delivery guarantee on them so they will be pushed up near the top of the priority queue. This priority is done to help minimize refunds that are being handed out, not based on sending the highest package type first.

As mentioned above, the majority of packages all result in a loss of money due to the high travel costs, so one way of reducing this is to add in a validation rule that says if the minimum cost of the package to send it (the $2 fixed cost + $0.5 per minute travel) is greater than the possible profit ($12 for premium, $8 for standard, $4 for budget) then refuse the package. This significantly cut down both the losses and number of packages being accepted. Out of all the places that normally it is possible to send packages to, only two became feasable to send packages to as all the others would always result in a loss of money due to the high travel time / cost. This meant for all the test files (test1 through to test20) rarely did any ever have the deliverer accepting and delivering more than 3 / 4 packages. It is for this reason that I have not included test files for each of these, but rather created a large Bigtest file and included a simulation for that test file.

With the improved validation rule, this resulted in hardly any packages being accepted by the company. What this means for having more employees is that it generally is not needed as the more you have the more it will just increase the fixed costs (I included a fixed cost of $12 for each employee) when the majority of the time they will be idle. For busy days, and if more than one package could arrive every minute, it would be best to have 2 employees. For all other times, one employee is the most profitable for the company.
