A just laicism allows religious freedom. The state does not impose religion but rather gives space to religions with a responsibility toward civil society, and therefore it allows these religions to be factors in building up society.
Joseph Ratzinger

Aim at heaven and you will get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you get neither.
C. S. Lewis

Born again?! No, I'm not. Excuse me for getting it right the first time.
Dennis Miller

Creationists make it sound as though a 'theory' is something you dreamt up after being drunk all night.
Isaac Asimov

Doubt is part of all religion. All the religious thinkers were doubters.
Isaac Bashevis Singer

Eskimo: "If I did not know about God and sin, would I go to hell?" Priest: "No, not if you did not know." Eskimo: "Then why did you tell me?"
Annie Dillard

God made everything out of nothing, but the nothingness shows through.
Paul Valery

He hoped and prayed that there wasn't an afterlife. Then he realized there was a contradiction involved here and merely hoped that there wasn't an afterlife.
Douglas Adams

Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads.
Henry David Thoreau

Human beings must be known to be loved; but Divine beings must be loved to be known.
Blaise Pascal

I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen: not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else.
C. S. Lewis

I do not feel obliged to believe that the same God who has endowed us with sense, reason, and intellect has intended us to forgo their use.
Galileo Galilei

I don't believe in God but I'm very interested in her.
Arthur C. Clarke

I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.
Mohandas Gandhi

I love you when you bow in your mosque, kneel in your temple, pray in your church. For you and I are sons of one religion, and it is the spirit.
Khalil Gibran

I never knew how to worship until I knew how to love.
Henry Ward Beecher

I prayed for twenty years but received no answer until I prayed with my legs.
Frederick Douglass

I was raised Catholic, but my father's people were Methodist, so we went to both churches.
Aaron Neville

I would rather live my life as if there is a God and die to find out there isn't, than live my life as if there isn't and die to find out there is.
Albert Camus

If a man would follow, today, the teachings of the Old Testament, he would be a criminal. If he would follow strictly the teachings of the New, he would be insane.
Robert Green Ingersoll

If I had been the Virgin Mary, I would have said "No."
Margaret Smith

If I had to choose a religion, the sun as the universal giver of life would be my god.
Napoleon Bonaparte

If Jesus had been killed twenty years ago, Catholic school children would be wearing little electric chairs around their necks instead of crosses.
Lenny Bruce

If the grandfather of the grandfather of Jesus had known what was hidden within him, he would have stood humble and awe-struck before his soul.
Khalil Gibran

Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?
Douglas Adams

It is now quite lawful for a Catholic woman to avoid pregnancy by a resort to mathematics, though she is still forbidden to resort to physics or chemistry.
H. L. Mencken

It is wonderful how much time good people spend fighting the devil. If they would only expend the same amount of energy loving their fellow men, the devil would die in his own tracks of ennui.
Helen Keller

It's wonderful to climb the liquid mountains of the sky. Behind me and before me is God and I have no fears.
Helen Keller

Jim Bakker spells his name with two k's because three would be too obvious.
Bill Maher

Just as a candle cannot burn without fire, men cannot live without a spiritual life.
Buddha

Just as the soul fills the body, so God fills the world. Just as the soul bears the body, so God endures the world. Just as the soul sees but is not seen, so God sees but is not seen. Just as the soul feeds the body, so God gives food to the world.
Marcus Tullius Cicero

Just in terms of allocation of time resources, religion is not very efficient. There's a lot more I could be doing on a Sunday morning.
Bill Gates

Krishna children were taught that in the spiritual world there were no parents, only souls and hence this justified their being kept out of view from others, cloistered in separate buildings and sheltered from the evil material world.
Mary Garden

Let your religion be less of a theory and more of a love affair.
Gilbert K. Chesterton

Morality is of the highest importance - but for us, not for God.
Albert Einstein

More and more people care about religious tolerance as fewer and fewer care about religion.
Alexander Chase

Muslims must believe that all power, success and victory comes from God alone.
Abu Bakar Bashir

No man ever believes that the Bible means what it says: He is always convinced that it says what he means.
George Bernard Shaw

One man's theology is another man's belly laugh.
Robert A. Heinlein

Our Father and Our God, unto thee, O Lord we lift our souls.
William Pennington

People have a constitutional right to burn a Koran if they want to, but doing so is insensitive and an unnecessary provocation - much like building a mosque at Ground Zero.
Sarah Palin

Prayer does not change God, but it changes him who prays.
Soren Kierkegaard

Prayer is the spirit speaking truth to Truth.
Philip James Bailey

Question with boldness even the existence of a God; because, if there be one, he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of blind-folded fear.
Thomas Jefferson

Recounting of a life story, a mind thinking aloud leads one inevitably to the consideration of problems which are no longer psychological but spiritual.
Paul Tournier

Religion is essentially the art and the theory of the remaking of man. Man is not a finished creation.
Edmund Burke

Religion is the idol of the mob; it adores everything it does not understand.
Frederick II

Religion is what keeps the poor from murdering the rich.
Napoleon Bonaparte

The Bible is literature, not dogma.
George Santayana

The Bible looks like it started out as a game of Mad Libs.
Bill Maher

The Christian resolution to find the world ugly and bad has made the world ugly and bad.
Friedrich Nietzsche

The emphasis on the birth of Christ tends to polarize our pluralistic society and create legal and ethnic belligerence.
John Clayton

The glory of Christianity is to conquer by forgiveness.
William Blake

The Godhead consists of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Father is a material being.
Orson Pratt

The more powerful and original a mind, the more it will incline towards the religion of solitude.
Aldous Huxley

The Sabbath is a weekly cathedral raised up in my dining room, in my family, in my heart.
Anita Diament

Theology is never any help; it is searching in a dark cellar at midnight for a black cat that isn't there. Theologians can persuade themselves of anything.
Robert A. Heinlein

There is no need for temples, no need for complicated philosophies. My brain and my heart are my temples; my philosophy is kindness.
Dalai Lama

There seems to be a terrible misunderstanding on the part of a great many people to the effect that when you cease to believe you may cease to behave.
Louis Kronenberger

This is God's world, not Satan's. Christians are the lawful heirs, not non-Christians.
Gary North

This is my simple religion. There is no need for temples; no need for complicated philosophy. Our own brain, our own heart is our temple; the philosophy is kindness.
Dalai Lama

We are always on the anvil; by trials God is shaping us for higher things.
Henry Ward Beecher

We are punished by our sins, not for them.
Elbert Hubbard

We must respect the other fellow's religion, but only in the sense and to the extent that we respect his theory that his wife is beautiful and his children smart.
H. L. Mencken

When lip service to some mysterious deity permits bestiality on Wednesday and absolution on Sunday, cash me out.
Frank Sinatra

When the missionaries came to Africa they had the Bible and we had the land. They said "Let us pray." We closed our eyes. When we opened them we had the Bible and they had the land.
Desmond Tutu

Where it is a duty to worship the sun it is pretty sure to be a crime to examine the laws of heat.
John Morley

Why should we take advice on sex from the pope? If he knows anything about it, he shouldn't!
George Bernard Shaw

You can safely assume that you've created God in your own image when it turns out that God hates all the same people you do.
Anne Lamott

You cannot believe in God until you believe in yourself.
Swami Vivekananda




